# YouTube-Recommendations
a tag based recommendation model for YouTube videos using R Shiny

# Description
We have created a R Shiny application which allows a user to input either a series of keywords or a video title and returns video recommendations using a personalizaed PageRank alogrithm. A user can store their watch history and build up a more tailored set of recommendations over time. 

# Files

There are four necessary files

UI.r - the frontside code for the application 
server.r - the backside code for the application
recomendations.sqlite - a database containing the applications data
recommendations.r - a script which contains all the backend functions as well as the funcitons used to create reccommendations.sqlite

# Installation 

## Prerequsites
a machine capable of running R 4.2.1 
at least R 4.2.1
The shiny, tidyverse, magrittr, DBI, RSQLite, glue, igraph, scales, and networkD3 packages with updates as of 4/20/2023

## Running the Application
1. download all the files in the repo 
2. follow the instructions in the recommendations.r script to download the dataset and create the database
3. launch the application using the UI.r and server.r files (very important: the sqlite database must be in the same directory as the UI and server files)

# Use

to create a recommendation, the user can start on either the watch history of keywords recommendations tabs. For the watch history tab, the user inputs a user id, their location, and the number of recommended videos and then press the "initialize" button. This uses a random video as a seed to create recommendations. For the keywords tab, the used inputs a set of keywords, their location, and the number of recommenede videos and presses "recommend". 

After this initial recommendation, the user can select the title of any video they have had recommended and input into the watch history tab - along with their user id, location, and number of videos - to create new recommendations. The database will save their preferences and this process can be repeated to tailor their recommendations to their taste. 




# Suggestive Title Maker
CSE6242- Team 102 (Spring 2023)


# Data sourcing
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rsrishav/youtube-trending-video-dataset <br>
Download the entire dataset 'youtube-trending-video-dataset'

# Installation/Execution Instructions
The Package contains the following files:
Project - Linear.R: R script for Linear Regression script using the youtube data provided, all the steps to run are explained using comments in the R script
Project - Linear GAM.R: R script for General Adaptive Model script using the youtube data provided, all the steps to run are explained using comments in the R script
Project - Poly.R: R script for Polynomial function script using the youtube data provided, all the steps to run are explained using comments in the R script
Project - SVM.R: R script for Support Vector Machine script using the youtube data provided, all the steps to run are explained using comments in the R script
Project - KNN.R: R script for K Nearest Neighbor script using the youtube data provided, all the steps to run are explained using comments in the R script
k vs mae: showing the value of K vs the absolute mean error using the elbow method



# Suggestive Title Maker
CSE6242- Team 102 (Spring 2023)


# Data sourcing
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rsrishav/youtube-trending-video-dataset <br>
Only download US and CA and GB csv and json files and save under folder 'youtube-trending-video-dataset'


# Description
In TensorFlow and Keras for Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM), happens through the tf.keras.layers.LSTM class. LSTM based neural networks have played an important role in the field of Natural Language Processing. In addition, they have been used widely for sequence modeling. The reason why LSTMs have been used widely for this is because the model connects back to itself during a forward pass of your samples, and thus benefits from context generated by previous predictions when prediction for any new sample.


# Installation/Execution Instructions
1. Create virtual environment of your choice. Select Python version 3.7 for your kernel.
2. Install the following libraries in your environment. Refer to Requirements.txt file.
3. If running model for the first time:


**Main Python Script:** youtube-title-suggestion-model-Copy1.ipynb <br>
For each Video Content Category, the following outputs will be generated: <br>
* keras_next_word_model.h5: Saved LSTM model
* history.p: Checkpoints
* tokenzier.pkl: Tokernizer
* nextword1.h5: Callbacks <br>

**Prediction Script:** Predictions.ipynb


4. For prior saved model outputs that can be reused refer to folder 'Prior Runs'
